I am a director of MBA Start program at Moscow Business School.
Before I came to Moscow Business School, I worked for several years in consulting,
in companies in the field of professional services, in the field of HR,
in the field of business management, in the field of business management,
I have a natural and scientific education, and the second, again, in the field of strategic HR.
Therefore, I hope that my short course will be quite interesting and practically useful for you.
So, dear listeners, today we will discuss the topic of designing a job.
Why is it so important?
In the modules of organizational behavior and general management, you have already familiarized yourself with the modern theories of motivation,
in which one of the important places is devoted to the content of the work that the employee performs at a modern enterprise.
Today we will see with you how you can effectively work with your subordinates
and with the work they do in order to make the overall work of the enterprise as effective as possible.
So, what are we going to talk about today?
Today we will talk about what specialization is.
We will learn about the concept of the limit of specialization.
We will see what organizational variables are associated with the design of a job.
We will consider practical approaches to how to design the work of your subordinates in order for them to work effectively
and to be as motivated as possible to perform their work to the best of their ability.
We will look at one model, which is called the socio-technical model of the organization,
and we will study the principles of socio-technical design, which will help you manage the implementation of complex information systems,
some technological innovations, so that these implementations are carried out as painlessly as possible for your organization.
We will consider the practical aspects of the design of the work of your subordinates
and the issues of maintaining the personnel, which are becoming very important at a modern enterprise.
And at the end we will talk a little about the fact that the design of the work is also associated with the physical equipment of our offices,
our workstations, workplaces, work spaces, where we live and spend more time in our lives than, say, at home.
Let's talk about what specialization is.
At the dawn of the birth of humanity, people realized that each of us likes and succeeds in a certain business better.
Some were engaged in harvesting, others in hunting, and the third was raising children.
And so it happened.
In the 19th century, Adam Smith was the first to bring the famous example of a pin factory,
where he painted for his contemporaries, amazed by this,
that one worker who was working on the production of a pin could make only 20 pins in one shift,
and, say, seven workers, each of whom specialized in a certain operation,
one pulled out a wire, the other cut it, the third sharpened the end, the fourth made a pin head, the fifth polished, and so on.
About 40,000 such products could be made in one shift.
And then, in the era of industrialization, the slogan of Adam Smith,
specialize, specialize your workers, and the efficiency of your enterprise will be higher,
has always come true and has given very good results.
However, today it is not quite so, and in some cases we can encounter such an effect as the limit of specialization.
But before we talk about it, let's introduce a number of definitions that are used today in management literature quite widely,
and which we will use further in this course.
So, speaking of the past, we very often talk about division of labor.
What is the division of labor within one organization?
This is the division of labor into a number of functions, partial functions, operations, within our organization, within the division of our organization.
If we talk today about what the specialization of each worker is associated with,
we immediately recall the concept of duty, duty instruction.
What are the functions, operations that our workers perform today?
What is a duty? Let's define.
This is a set of tasks, work, which are performed by the worker to achieve the goals of the organization.
Let's talk about how much today we can perceive a position only as a set of certain tasks.
Many modern researchers in the field of management say that this is not quite so.
At today's enterprise, it is not enough to perform a function, to perform a task, to solve a task.
You still need to play certain roles.
For example, a workshop master at a production site can play the role of a mentor for newly-arrived specialists.
A sales manager can play the role of a consultant for the higher management of the company in the process of developing strategic marketing plans.
We all play such roles in our workplaces, both ordinary workers and managers.
What is a role?
A role is a set of behavioral patterns that allow us to achieve the results that are expected from us by the higher management and the business organization as a whole.
Today, every workplace is a position for us and a set of certain roles that a particular person plays in his workplace.
What is specialization?
Specialization is the concentration of a worker's activities on a certain set of functions, roles and operations, related to the acquisition of certain knowledge by this worker.
Again, going back to the example of a workshop master, who is both a manager of his department and a mentor for newly-arrived employees,
we can say that he should have acquired his direct knowledge of how the production process works during his work and, perhaps, while studying somewhere.
He should also have certain knowledge and skills of how to raise our young workers.
Now, let's go back to the idea of Adam Smith that we should specialize our employees as much as possible in order to make the organization work effectively.
The so-called experience curve says that the more repeated operations we perform, the better we do it.
It works for a person who has been hired and it also works for an organization.
But if we talk about a particular person, let's take a production process, a conveyor, a certain psychological and even physical state arises,
when it becomes difficult to perform remote work efficiently with a minimum number of errors.
Remember the famous movie by Charlie Chaplin, New Times, when poor Charlie twists the same nuts a million times on his conveyor.
Of course, after another nut, he wants to throw everything away and avoid such work.
Now we are giving the most obvious example of low-quality work.
In fact, any job has a limit of specialization, including a highly qualified one.
A person sometimes needs to change the functions and tasks performed by him in order to make the work effective, with maximum feedback, and motivate the person to do such work.
We can say that in some areas of human activity there is a phenomenon called the effect of professional burnout.
This effect is often mentioned in connection with stressful situations in the organization.
But you must admit that there are specialties, for example, a doctor who works with seriously ill children, or a teacher of the elementary school,
where even the most favorite work you have dreamed of all your life can cause you a severe state of stress and inner frustration, which will not allow you to continue to perform the work as effectively.
For such specializations and jobs, it is necessary to work out specialized adaptation and rehabilitation periods for these employees.
There are not enough trainings that allow to reduce the effect of such overload.
There are complex approaches and specialized programs.
So, what should influence and be provided for by the manager when we design the work of our employee?
The main factors of influence are, of course, the enterprise strategy.
Why? Because I give an example.
For example, fast food businesses or cleaning companies, where a lot of low-qualified staff is employed, who do not work in this company for more than two or three months.
It can be students who, during the holidays or during the year-end lectures, work at these enterprises.
It can be pensioners who come to such companies for a certain period.
And such companies have a task to quickly, firstly, put the employee who comes to work in a position for a short time.
Secondly, it is enough to part with him painlessly.
That is why specialization in these companies balances at the level of the threshold of specialization.
Because people who come to this company must quickly master the skills necessary for the operation and pass these skills on to another person who will come to this company in two or three months.
Other companies, for example, consulting business, which are interested in minimizing brain drain in other companies, competitors and, perhaps, even in other states, will build different strategies.
And in such companies, very often, specialization is quite broad.
They are growing more like specialists, so-called generalists of the common profile.
The general framework of how work is designed within the framework of one enterprise is set by the organizational structure.
You have already got acquainted with the types of organizational structures that exist now.
And you know very well that, let's say, in a functional structure or a divisional structure, there are departments in a company that, firstly, unite people with certain skills and knowledge, and, secondly, perform certain functions in the organization.
Thirdly, the main factor of influence on how we design work is, of course, our main business processes.
And here we must understand, on the one hand, that our business is the production of a stool, or several stools, or we produce software.
Maybe we are developing some project or the most complex mechanism, a moon rover, a space ship.
These are completely different businesses, different business processes, and the business processes themselves will affect how we design the work of our subordinates.
And, of course, probably the most important factor is the internal motives of each employee for whom we design this work.
In some cases, we can say, no, we have a company called Uravnilovka, we all have official instructions.
They not only allow us to report to the labor inspection, but also to structure the work of each of our subordinates.
But all people are a little different.
If we talk, again, about the effect of specialization, then, as well as the threshold of pain, the threshold of specialization for each of us will be different.
For example, it is noted that in enterprises where watches are manually assembled, for example, in Switzerland or Japan,
women's labor is used more advantageously, because, apparently, women are more patient, more inclined to perform repeated operations over and over again.
For many years they were engaged in knitting, sewing, these are quite tedious activities.
So, today, for each of our employees there is a threshold of specialization.
And a manager who is attentive to his team must be sure to take this into account and be able to analyze.
Another factor of influence, no less important, is what tasks, what structure of tasks we set for our subordinates, what is the content of these tasks, what levels of responsibility these tasks imply.
Each task has its own motivating potential, so for each task that our subordinate performs, for each task, we must also take into account how much it can motivate our subordinate to effective and successful actions.
And the last factor, the factor of influence, is the corporate culture of the company. What does corporate culture have to do with it?
In fact, this factor is no less important, because when performing any work in an organization, people gather in an organization to achieve certain goals that are set for the organization.
So, we simply cannot perform work in an organization alone. In order to do it, we need to interact.
Interact at the same hierarchy level where we are, interact with the management, and all these interactions will be supported by certain rules and norms of behavior fixed in the corporate culture of our company.
Therefore, this is also very important.
We have already discussed that one of the important factors of influence on the design of a work is the structure of the tasks that our subordinates solve.
What should it be like?
Let's turn to the dummy cycle, which you have probably already seen, and which is primarily focused on the function of the manager.
What should the manager do? He must plan, organize, do some work, he must control the execution of this work, and if he detects any deviations, act, change something, and then plan again.
This cycle is repeated. As a rule, we apply this cycle to the work of the manager, but in fact, the ideal structure of the task, the full-fledged task that your subordinate performs, must include all these stages.
So, when we design the work of our subordinate, it is desirable that the work performed by him includes all four stages.
So that our subordinate participates in the planning stage, the tasks that he has to solve, and, of course, performs them.
He himself was involved in the control measures to assess the quality of the performance of this work, his timeliness, and so on, and had the opportunity and the inner desire to change something so that the work could be performed better, more effectively, and, in some cases, even easier, and, of course, more interesting for him.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, you will complete the task for self-checking from 1 to 3. This will help you to consolidate the material you have passed and think more about how you design work for your specific subordinates.
Now let's turn to the research of scientists of the second half of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century, which were dedicated to how to design a work to be motivating.
Perhaps the most famous model described is the Hackman model. Hackman argued that the main parameters of the task performed by the worker should be the following.
1. The variety of skills that the worker should use, and, of course, have them in order to solve the tasks set before him. 2. The integrity of the task. What we have discussed is the planning stage, the performance stage, the control stage, and possible changes.
3. The significance of the task. What is the significance of the task? A trivial semi-anecdote, a semi-example from the life of an army officer comes to mind.
When in order to take on another private officer, the senior officer gives an order to sweep the square from here and until lunchtime. And when both of them understand that this task is almost pointless and is given precisely to take on a person.
In some military organizations, I assure you, you will probably find such managers who have nothing to give to their subordinates on a certain day. Let's say, it's New Year's holidays or New Year's break when customers don't buy your company's services so actively, and the contract department sits on hungry loaves.
Therefore, they can be given a task to sweep from here and until lunchtime. So, it is necessary to keep in mind how often we assign such reasonable tasks to our subordinates.
The task should provide a certain autonomy for the employee. Very often, the function of control, the function of making changes, all this is delegated to the manager.
On the other hand, your subordinate should, after all, for some time, solve the task autonomously enough, have the opportunity to request the resources he needs and perform the task without your interference, without the interference of the senior management in what he is doing.
The fifth parameter, according to Hackman, is feedback. Based on his research, Hackman claims that if the task is such and satisfies all five conditions,
then it creates certain positive psychological states for the employee, which allow him to perform the work more effectively, achieve a higher level of quality, be more satisfied and, accordingly, loyal to the employer,
and show more zeal for work, including not being absent at work. Such absence in the West is called absenteeism, when a person sits on his chair, but in fact he is really absent somewhere.
We believe that now, very often, with the help of the Internet, we can do this for a great benefit for both at home and to satisfy our needs in interacting with other people. Therefore, if we have the satisfaction of our work, we will most likely not do so.
Accordingly, if our task satisfies all five criteria, we will consider that our work is well evaluated, that our work is significant, that this task is worth it.
Of course, the Hackman model does not work in all cases. If you recall the theory of X and Y of Douglas McGregor, you will remember that, on the one hand, people can be lazy and not tuned in to intensive work, and, on the other hand, they are inspired by the very opportunity to work and create something.
Therefore, we are all a little different, and even the same person in different periods of his life and career can rather relate to either the X generation or the Y generation.
Therefore, this model, as Hackman claimed, will work only for those who are significantly in need of professional, social, and business growth. If this is not significant for the worker, then it will not work.
Let's look at the factors that other researchers working in this field highlight. Lowler gives credit to the fact that feedback is important and very important in work. Hackman also had it, but Lowler emphasizes special attention to this aspect.
The second factor is the degree of application of skills, not skills and knowledge, but skills that generalize the concept.
The third factor is the independent control of choosing the path to achieve the goal. In this model, the leader does not set a specific task, but sets a goal for the worker, and the worker chooses the path to achieve the goal, and plans his work, controls it, and, of course, performs it.
Robertson and Smith have the main criteria for how many tasks our subordinate solves, how complex these tasks are, and how involved our subordinates are in the activities of self-managed working teams.
If we set a task for a group of people, for a team, and the whole team participates in the planning, implementation, control, and implementation of changes in the work, it turns out that each member of the team is more complete and has a more complete task in terms of its structure, which we talked about earlier.
Again, Robertson and Smith say that the level of responsibility of the worker for choosing the path to achieve the goal is very important, and, of course, good relationships in the team in which he has to interact, and feedback from the person who set this goal, set this task.
Turner and Lawrence emphasize the manager's attention at the end of the 20th century to the fact that work should be diverse, not monotonous, that a person should feel a certain independence that he needs to solve tasks.
These scientists also said that the following are very important factors.
These are the necessary interactions that are necessary for the solutions of tasks before the worker, for example, the interaction of the manager and subordinates, and additional interactions that are necessary for our worker to solve these tasks.
For example, interaction with the workers of other companies, possibly with clients who are outside the company. This is also very important.
Cooper emphasized the attention of the modern manager on the features set before our subordinates. The goal itself should motivate a person to do his job effectively.
From the point of view of philosophy or ideology, what do we, as managers, achieve when designing the work of a certain person? In fact, everything is very simple. We achieve a balance between organizational goals and goals of our specific worker, Ivan Ivanovich, who works in our team today.
Let's consolidate the knowledge we have gained and perform exercises 4 and 5.
Now let's go back to the ground. Let's forget about the researchers who have been devoted to this topic for a long time and talk about specific tools that allow us to design the work of our subordinates.
The first tool that managers talked about at the beginning of the 20th century was the expansion of work.
Then, in the midst of the industrialization era, our industrial production used new technologies and tools every year, which seemed to allow enterprises to work more effectively, with more attachment.
Nevertheless, the introduction of all these technical innovations resulted in the resistance of staff, strikes, and the number of mistakes made by subordinates increased.
The trend of that time was that the specialization of each worker should be at the maximum level.
Then managers decided that they should expand the work of Charlie Chaplin on the assembly line.
He should not only tighten nuts, but also screw in screws and attach other things to our part.
This is called the expansion of work.
When we increase the number of operations performed by one worker due to similar operations that he performed earlier.
For example, our secretary can only sort and distribute incoming messages, mail, e-mail, etc.
We can expand his work by offering him to work with incoming messages.
Or, for example, I will describe a rather real situation.
In the 1990s, business related to the sale of air tickets abroad began to develop quite actively in Russia.
The iron curtain has been dissolved, and therefore, Russians, for example, began their travel life in this period.
That is why, for example, there were quite a lot of tourist agencies in Moscow that specialized in the sale of air tickets.
Moreover, people came to work in them with a high education, a fairly wide view, simply because, as you know, at that time many state enterprises switched to business.
And so they happily learned a new business, began to use the Western booking systems of air tickets, and they were able to work.
And they made quite a few mistakes.
But a year after one of such enterprises was formed, the management began to notice that the percentage of incorrectly issued air tickets was growing.
Naturally, the management did not immediately guess what the matter was, blamed the workers in some way, fined them somewhere, but this did not lead to any positive results for the organization.
And only an invited psychologist guessed that people with a fairly high level of education, who could do various things in this period, were a little tired of the functions they performed.
Then the psychologist offered the manager, let's offer our consultants on air tickets to perform a number of other works that will be in the same area, but will differ from a simple sale ticket.
They were offered, at that time the company already had the Internet, to consult with buyers in addition to what weather conditions are appropriate, finding the appropriate information.
And if a Russian resident flies abroad, to Frankfurt or Düsseldorf, where there are very complex airports, it is difficult to understand, then the airport scheme should be printed out and the passenger should be consulted in detail in advance on how to behave if he needs to make a transfer.
Strangely, the manager saw after a while that the number of errors was high enough, and in this company it decreased.
Therefore, the expansion of the work can be used, but this tool does not always work, because many people can honor this increase in load when the task is basically the same, the level of responsibility is approximately the same.
The feedback does not change. Therefore, I would consider this tool a little outdated and would not recommend using it, with the exception of a few.
The next tool we will talk about is a very promising and interesting tool, in my opinion, it is the rotation of work.
Again, if we turn to a primitive, but clear example of the production process, this is when workers exchange functions with each other for a certain period of time.
For example, today I was tightening nuts, and my neighbor was screwing screws, and the next day we exchanged them.
If we talk about other businesses, then in them the rotation of work allows not only to ensure the interoperability of employees, which is very important for production, but also to solve a number of other problems.
The rotation allows you to effectively learn and improve the system of interaction and communication in the company.
I will give another example. You probably know that very often the sales department employees conflict with the finance department.
This is a typical situation for a Russian enterprise, because the task of the finance department is to correctly select and take into account all the primary payment documents, contracts and other documentation that allows the finance department to report to the tax service.
And the sales department has a task to get as much money as possible from the client. Thus, the tasks are quite different, and the sales department is sometimes cool in relation to what documents the client should provide to ensure that the payment is correct.
In one company, a sales department employee who had been working there for several years realized that he was tired of interacting with clients and wanted to change his job.
But the climate in the company was comfortable enough for him, and he did not want to say goodbye to it. Therefore, he approached his manager and said, Ivan Petrovich, I can't do sales anymore, I would like to do something else.
And then the wise manager said, okay, you work great with clients and you know what kind of documentation should be in this area. Maybe you will deal with the issues of managing the financial department for some time. We'll see, maybe you'll like it.
The employee agreed and went to work in the finance department. When he began to communicate more closely with his colleagues, accountants, financiers, and conduct accounting for sales, he became more familiar with the problems of accountants and financiers.
Thus, he facilitated the establishment of a more productive dialogue between the departments, because he knew perfectly well the specifics of the work of the salesmen and the specifics of the work of the finance department.
And some tension, as well as many conflicts that were previously, were leveled with the help of such an employee. And this was a certain rotation.
A lot is being written about this tool in the West now, as a tool for training personnel and redesigning their work. In order for an employee at a certain stage of their career to understand whether he can do some other business in the company, he must try to do it.
Just as you can't try to jump without jumping. Therefore, both the production and non-production rotation makes the work more interesting.
The next tool, this term was first introduced by Friedrich Herzberg, is called enrichment of work. If we take the classic definition, then this is a vertical expansion of the tasks, ensuring greater autonomy in performing tasks and increasing responsibility for the quality of their execution.
In fact, enrichment of work is a refraction of our cycle of during, which we talked about, planning, doing, controlling, influencing the work of our employee.
Another example. An industrial enterprise, a factory, in the early 2000s, works quite successfully. The factory is run by a master who has dedicated more than one decade of his life to this factory and is ready to retire.
But the master values both the colleagues and the head of the factory. Therefore, when the master came to the head and said, enough, I want to take care of the family, the country, the garden, I probably have to go, I am ready to say goodbye to this factory, although I gave it a lot of time, strength, energy, and to leave.
The head said, well, think about it, but first, please participate in the program of recruiting our new apprentices, our new employees who will come to us in a week. Please tell them about the factory. We have so few employees who have worked here for several decades.
And the master agreed. He told us so interestingly about what the factory does, how the brigades work at the factory, that almost all the graduates of local professional schools came to work at this particular enterprise.
Then the director of the staff of this enterprise and his manager decided to offer the master, Maxim Petrovich, maybe you will head the project, our program, it is not necessary to do as much work as you do in the workshop now, you can take care of the upbringing of our youth.
The master thought, said, let me try. And then? And then a whole program of training young specialists grew at the factory, and our workshop was engaged in this project for everyone, in fact, from the moment of planning to the moment of controlling the results.
He liked this work, he liked it, and therefore it was performed as effectively as possible.
In the same way, you can enrich the work of your subordinates, giving them the opportunity to implement a holistic project that will include all stages of the dueling cycle, or any task for which the subordinate will be responsible and will be actively involved at the stage of its planning.
The next tool used to design the work of subordinates is the creation of self-managed teams. In fact, this is the stimulation of group work without direct administrative control over their activities.
In this case, of course, absolutely without the function of control, such a team cannot exist, but the control should be strategic, guiding, supporting the work of this team.
One of the tools that is used now and stimulates the work of self-managed teams, from which it would be possible to start at the enterprise, is the so-called training of actions.
This technology was invented by Ray Crevance. He said that our knowledge, on the one hand, can be programmed, we can read a textbook, go through training, and on the other hand, it depends on how skillfully we can put and answer the questions we are asked.
Therefore, you can offer a task to a group of your subordinate. For example, guys, study how good the compensation system in our company is and offer a solution.
This solution will be protected by the board of directors, and the best solutions will be implemented in the practice of the company's activities. At the same time, only on a voluntary basis can you join this team. If there is a desire to work on this issue, the issue will be resolved.
Each member of the team at the planning stage receives its own small piece of the task, for example, to analyze the tools of non-material motivation in the company that support the compensation system, or to analyze the labor market as a whole in the region and the proposals of other companies to compare with this.
This technology stimulates creativity and interest in work, and it engages all team members in all stages of the development cycle.
The last tool of the work, the design of the work that is being used now, is the design of work with high performance indicators.
How is this done? This is done only as a result of a large and tedious work, when you identify in your industry, in the group of enterprises that work in your field of specialization, which enterprise uses the highest standards, the highest level is set for the employee.
The higher the employee should jump, the more interesting it is for him to do this.
The same Hackman model, which we were looking at a little earlier, proposed the following simple actions that affect the motivating nature of our tasks.
If we want to increase the variety of skills and knowledge that our subordinates use and ensure the integrity of the task, we must combine the tasks that we have and give them to one of our subordinates.
If we want to ensure the integrity of the task and focus on its significance, we must form completed, full-fledged tasks.
Hackman also recommends that each of our subordinates establish direct connections with their clients. Why is this necessary?
So that the feedback is complete, so that we receive not only approval or kicks from our managers, but also directly control how clearly and correctly we meet the requests of our clients.
The client may be an external one, if it concerns the sales department employee. The client may be an internal one, if I am a representative of the company's legal service and I consider the request, analyze the contracts that the sales manager provides me.
My client is the sales manager, I must process the contract presented to me in due time and return it to the sales manager, and the client is the one who receives it.
Hackman recommends expanding the vertical tasks. Let's go back to Gertzberg. This is in line with enriching the work in Gertzberg. Hackman recommends analyzing and creating additional feedback channels.
I will give you a few examples of bright and useful tools that are used by modern companies and that you can observe. For example, Delta Airlines recently developed a program for the most loyal clients.
If you fly over the Earth more than 100 km using Delta, you get a set of coupons of $ 50, $ 20, $ 10. You can give each of these coupons to the airline employee whose work impressed you the most.
Accordingly, the airline employee can exchange these coupons for real money. Many hotels have developed similar feedback systems for their clients, where a competition is held for the best hotel worker, according to the results of which the relevant workers receive valuable prizes.
In order to fix the material, please pause the video and complete the tasks 6, 7, 8 for self-checking.
Let's now turn to another model that was also developed in the last century, but now, at the beginning of the 21st century, has undergone some changes and can be used for your benefit.
What is this model? It is a model of an organization as a socio-technical system. Again, starting from the industrialization era, it was revealed that many technical innovations do not lead to the expected results.
Why? Because when designing them, certain requirements were not taken into account, which the social subsystem of the organization sets out for how such innovations should be introduced.
In the 20th century, a number of scientists proposed the following model. Our organization consists of two main systems.
This is the technical subsystem, these are the mechanisms, equipment, software, technological solutions of a variety of nature, and the social system.
These are the people working in the organization, this is the relationship between them, this is the knowledge, skills, competencies, needs of our worker.
This is the system of rewards and the structure of power and management in the organization.
The basic principles of socio-technical design were developed in the 1970s, but then, at the beginning of the 21st century, were somewhat improved.
What are they talking about? That the design of the workplace in the situation of today's constant changes should be done as follows.
First, the design process must correspond to its goals. It's very simple. If you design the place of Ivan Ivanovich, you should involve him in the design process, in planning what he will do tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and not to make it out of what he did the day before yesterday.
The second principle is that the goals of the design must be clear, clear, and clearly set, but the tools and ways to achieve the goals can be chosen by the worker or a group of workers independently.
For example, one of the Western organizations implemented the following program. All the premises of the organization were given to the workers to organize the workplace themselves in the way they were comfortable with the tasks assigned to them.
The third principle is that the function of controlling possible deviations should be implemented as closely as possible to the place of potential deviation.
If we turn to the traditional hierarchical structure of the organization, for example, the function of control is implemented in the service of internal control or management of the organization, and defects and defects may appear in the production process.
If the worker at the production site is not motivated to declare a defect, he can declare a defect, a low-quality material, at the output of the production process, only by the IT department. Accordingly, through the IT manager, through the division manager, this signal will return back to the worker who made a mistake.
Thus, the processing time of this alarm signal about a defect is increasingly increased, and in the process of working with a defective product, several dozen people are already busy. Accordingly, the work with a defective product is becoming more expensive.
I can give an example of one of the Russian enterprises that acted as follows. This is a company that produces GoFrotars, called Gotek.
The employees of the production process were motivated to declare defective products if they fall at any stage of the production cycle to this worker.
At the same time, he received bonuses not only for a certain production, but also made so many boxes. And the number of boxes paid included the defective products or blanks that reached him at this stage.
Thus, the company increased the quality of the produced product and reduced the percentage of the final defect.
The next principle of socio-technical design is that managers are multifunctional people by nature.
Do not give your subordinate a task such as screwing a nut and that's it. Consider your subordinate as a tool, although I don't like this word, which can perform various functions and tasks, and give them to him.
The next principle is the principle of open borders. In an organization, you can not always design a job, taking into account only the tasks that are before the subordinate.
And not only can you take into account such tasks, but you should take into account and keep in mind the tasks that go beyond the team that is subordinate to him.
This will motivate the subordinates to expand the circle of vision and to build an effective system of interaction with colleagues of other departments.
The next principle of socio-technical design says that all subordinates should receive the information they need for work and when it is necessary.
It makes no sense to comment here.
The next principle says that all support systems of socio-technical design are a system of rewards, a system of training a set of employees.
And many other organizational subsystems should be congruent with the goals and tasks of socio-technical design, and not contradict them.
For example, we try to introduce collective working principles into the organization, but the system of rewards is focused exclusively on individual rewards.
Thus, the work of our self-managed teams will not be supported by this system, they will be in contradiction and will not give the expected result.
The next principle is also very simple. The manager should take into account the common human values, personal autonomy, the right to freedom of speech, and so on.
The last principle of socio-technical design is the principle of imperfection.
We have designed work for our subordinates, and, as it seems to us, today, in the most optimal and effective way.
But we cannot stop here, because tomorrow the preferences of our employees will change, and specialization will require some change of skills, knowledge, and so on.
Therefore, this is a continuous process, a cyclical process that must be carried out in the organization permanently.
Today's work on socio-technical design is very often focused on how various automation and software means are being introduced into our companies,
which, among other things, aims to improve certain social functions of the organization, and helps us to interact in a different way.
But, as WISFORS claims, the social system of the organization sets certain requirements for each such innovation.
Just like the software we buy sets certain requirements for the computer we try to install, the social system also sets certain requirements for our information technologies that are introduced into the corporate life of a modern company.
This difference between the requirements set by the social system of the organization and the opportunities provided by modern automation means is called a socio-technical gap.
I can give the following example from the activities of a foreign company in Russia. Several years ago, a telecommunications company decided to introduce a so-called DocFlow system, an electronic document of turnover.
At the same time, all contracts with the company's clients had to be agreed upon within the organization at all levels of management electronically.
This system allowed to track which managers had a particular contract, what reviews managers published for this contract.
It seems that the overall level of education and compatibility with the technological innovations of the company's personnel was very high.
Therefore, the management decided to introduce this system in three days, a five-year plan in three days, and sent a brief instruction on how to use the tool to all sales department employees.
What happened? A few days later, the company's manager received several complaints about the departure. Why?
The issue was solved as follows. It turned out that for the sales department employees, direct contact with the managers was very important,
because the company supplied expensive equipment, and any agreement or will to sign a contract, to change a contract, had to be resolved incredibly quickly.
Sales managers thought that these issues could be solved quickly only by direct contact.
Over time, this situation was resolved, managers were trained, they got used to this system, set certain requirements for the system, which had to be finalized by the programmers.
Only then did it work in the organization. This happens very often.
For example, when such a communication tool as email appeared, it would seem that all business communications should go into this area,
but management practice has shown that this is not the case, and, of course, without personal contact, the communication of managers with subordinates cannot take place.
That is why the projects that imply the introduction of a complex system of automation, let's say, an ERP-level system,
require increased attention to the requirements of the organization's social system, which should not contradict the capabilities of these systems.
In modern work, it is often discussed, let's say, if we offer employees to discuss some issues on the Internet,
then the moderator of this system or the company manager who controls it should remove, for example, negative messages from employees.
What right does he have to do this? It's hard to say. Each system must have certain laws embedded inside, as well as the laws in our society that allow us to regulate such situations.
For example, the well-known email portal Hotmail.com makes quite strict requirements that if you do not use your mailbox for a certain period of time, a month or two, it should be deleted.
But you must learn and read this rule when you enter the system. And this portal has not received a single complaint from clients who use it for a long time.
This is because there are certain rules and laws for the use of this portal.
Let's talk again about the important factor in the design of work, which is feedback. If we look at American and Japanese management, we can say that both systems have different rules for stimulating feedback.
If the United States is stimulating the initiative of the employee who gave the most profitable solution in terms of the economy for the business as a whole, and, as a rule, this employee receives a large monetary reward,
in Japan, employees do not receive financial rewards for their rationalization proposals, but the business rules and corporate culture of Japanese companies have established that the employee must make a proposal, and this is always welcomed by management,
about how to simplify the work they do, or make it more attractive, more interesting, so that in the culture of Japanese companies there are already some prerequisites for effective feedback from bottom to top that allow them to design a workplace.
Let's look at what we have in Russia. In Russia, the employee will rather remain silent than ask his boss whether it is time to change the screws or screws to write articles about screws.
Very often, a Russian employee, as well as an employee in many CIS countries, will remain silent about their problem or dissatisfaction with the work being done. Therefore, the task of stimulating feedback lies on the shoulders of managers, primarily linear managers.
That is why it is very important not to forget to ask our subordinates very simple questions. What tasks and tasks do you do today? Try to write and tell me about it. What tasks and tasks do you not want to do tomorrow and the day after? And what tasks would you like to solve tomorrow in your activity?
And, of course, it is very useful to ask yourself questions about how I, as a manager, my organization, as an organization, stimulate the initiative from below regarding the design of the work. Are we ready, I, as a manager, my colleagues, to initiate such conversations that will lead to discussion?
Are there supportive mechanisms that will support this initiative from below? For example, a system of regular attestation in the format of a dialogue, where an employee can and should, according to corporate rules, tell about what he does, what he does not want to do and will not do, and what he wants and will do with great pleasure.
Now let's talk about a very painful issue of the early 21st century, about the retention of staff. We say that if an employee is satisfied with his work, he will not seek an alternative. Let's see what the employee values today.
According to the results of a survey conducted in 2000 by McKinsey, the main factors that people named are freedom and autonomy in work, 56%, more than half, this is not so little, and inspiring and challenging work, which, as I said, allows you to say, guys, I did it.
Another study reveals the following factors. The most important factor is a good team. Further, as the number decreases, it is a pleasant working atmosphere, a good salary, interesting work and a flexible working schedule. Let's take this into account when designing a job.
Dr. Phillips conducted a fairly large-scale study on the factors affecting the retention of staff in the early 2000s. He also identified five factors, two of which are directly related to the work of a manager in designing the work of an employee. This is the satisfaction of a particular job that we do and the degree of our immersion in the job.
Dr. Phillips also identified the following temporary critical points. If our employee has worked for 6-8 months in a company, he has the first risk when he can and in some cases resigns at his own will. Perhaps he lacks competence, perhaps he realized that the work he was doing was not up to his parameters.
The next critical point is the so-called crisis of promotion. Three years of work in a company, when a person needs to understand where he is moving. This is not necessarily an ascent up the hierarchy of the management and managerial career. It can be a move horizontally to another department, to other tasks, to some new projects.
The last critical point is the crisis of 5 years, when a person gets a little tired of working in the same company, in the same field.
The next critical point is the re-design of the work at the level of 2 years of work of an employee in a company and probably 3-4 years. Therefore, keep in mind, dear listeners, that you need to work with your subordinates often and ask them the simplest questions about the tasks they perform.
Also, for yourself, create a certain table in which you can list all your employees and roughly assess the integrity of the tasks they perform.
We talked about how the work can be done more motivating for your subordinates. We talked about the fact that the tasks should be complex, interesting, and different. Nevertheless, never forget that one of the factors that affect a particular work is the needs of a particular person.
That's why you need to be flexible in designing the work. Today, there are many trends that speak about the opposite. Sometimes, people, especially in our period of colossal changes in the Russian economy, get tired of this race, this constant conquest and conquest.
For example, headhunting companies note that at the age of 42, a manager who has already created a lot in his career and life, has a certain limit. After 42 years, he prefers to rest on laurels and not conquer more Everest due to his own fatigue.
There are also certain trends, for example, the transition of a manager from a larger business company, where they are responsible for a certain section of the company that narrows their specialization, to a small or medium-sized business company, where they become managers of a wider profile and can solve more diverse tasks in their practice.
And they may have fewer limiting conditions for large organizations.
This also motivates people. Many polls show that this is important for a person. But it's not just comfort or discomfort of being in a room that is important for employees.
We often forget that the physical equipment of our offices, our premises, where employees can interact, should be designed in such a way that this interaction is not violated and is full.
I'll give you an example. In one company specializing in software development, there was a move. Employees moved to a building with a convenient kitchen and dining room, to a new building where there were no such premises, only employees' workplaces, in OpenSpace format.
For some reason, the management noticed that the market for new versions of manufactured products was slowing down. Naturally, the manager did not immediately think that the disappearance of a smoking room as a physical room or dining room in the company's life could contribute to this.
It turned out that programmers are used to solving individual tasks at work, focusing on software code. But the questions that require creative solutions, interaction between them, they are used to solving in the smoking room or dining room.
When it was not, there were fewer appropriate solutions. How much time has passed since the company moved and how long has it been until the company's head and HR director together solved this small problem by allocating the appropriate premises is difficult to say.
But similar approaches to designing physical rooms should also be taken into account and can bring certain problems to any organization. For example, I can give you the design studio of Artemiya Lebedeva, which you probably all know well.
In her office, there is a notice where employees can sleep during working hours. The company's head thinks that this is also very important because the work is quite creative, not traditional. If a person needs rest, the head will rather provide it so that the employee can then work fully.
So think what you need. It can be a sofa, a cigarette lighter, or a dining room. It depends on what your company specializes in.
Let's summarize. What are the basic factors for motivating work? This is the variety and complexity of the tasks to be solved. This is the responsibility that our employee takes on and feels for the solution to the task you offer him.
This is the integrity of the task in terms of including various stages of planning, implementation, control, and making possible changes. These are the features of the goal that we set for our employees.
This is the degree of involvement, skills, abilities, and knowledge that our employees have in their heads. And, of course, feedback. How can I, as a manager, competently and positively assess the work performed by my employees?
How can I guide them smoothly in the necessary direction, strategically guide them, but not restrict their freedom in choosing the tools for achieving the goals set before them?
Universalism is impossible here. An individual approach is necessary for every person, every workplace, every position. And let me remind you once again that designing a job not only motivates. These tools that we talked about today allow you to keep high-performance employees.
I can say, based on the data of the McKinsey poll, which we talked about, that less than 10% of respondents believe that their companies know who is a high-performance employee and encourage high-performance employees.
We must identify these employees, we must approach the design issues as carefully and fully as possible. It is their work that is very difficult to keep, and the company is always in great need.
Therefore, we must remember that there are critical points in the career of every employee. This is the beginning of a career, this is a crisis of promotion, and this is a crisis of fatigue.
To consolidate the material you have passed, you need to pause your video projector and complete the task 9.